# Welcome to the 5C Blockchain Club
This is a public repository for the 5C Cryptocurrency Blockchain. We will post relevant research and related information here! The first step is to create a GitHub account! First, find a profile picture and save it to your computer's desktop. Then, you can create a GitHub account [here](https://github.com/). You can change your profile photo through the following link [here](https://github.com/settings/profile). Make sure that when you click this link, you hit **Upload New Picture**.

Now, assuming that you have set up a GitHub account, you're going to want to set up an editor. Normally, people use something called vim. You can also use a different editor by using the following command in your terminal or command prompt window: `git config --global core.editor <editor-command>`. Now, before I continue on with this tutorial, I'm going to stop assuming base knowledge and explain a few key concepts and tools that will be helpful for this journey. First, I'm going to give an introduction to GitHub and the use of Git. I hope you will have fun learning! :tada::+1: :octocat: 

# #A Brief Aside on the Command Line 
Assuming that you have created a GitHub account, you may be wondering how we use GitHub asides from in-browser. One very popular way, and the way that I use, is through the command line (also called the command screen or text interface). This is a user interface that you navigate via typing "prompts" or commands instead of using the mouse (like you might on the GitHub website). The command line is really important for many reasons. One quick example is if you wanted to make or rename 100 files in a directory on your computer, you will be extremely frustrated doing so manually. However, you could do such tasks in under a minute with the command line. Although I would love to discuss the command line and its relevance more, I want to prioritize the use of Git and eventually get to doing some Blockhain work! That being said, I will assume that you have knowledge of some basic commands and know your way around the command line from this point onwards. A good tutorial can be found [here](https://www.davidbaumgold.com/tutorials/command-line/). It will let you know how to find the command line, how to use the command line, and some navigation techniques. Some of the most commonly used  commands are the following. 
*  `ls` which lists the content of directories (files). Think l(i)s(t). 
*  `cd` which lists the contents of the current directory. Think c(urrent) d(irectory). 
*  `pwd` which p(rints) the w(orking) d(irectory), moving you around your computer.  
*  `rm` which r(e)m(oves) the file! It deletes a file permanently, be careful. 
*  `sudo` which stands for super user do. Be careful with this and look it up before using.

For the purposes of this document, I will be using terminal on a Mac. Take your time reading up on the command line before we head into the next step of our journey - Git and GitHub. 

# Git and GitHub
GitHub is a version control system that has Git at it's base. GitHub allows people to store files and work together online. In addition, it allows people to keep a live log of everything related to a set of files or code. It's extremely popular worldwide and used in millions of projects, even [Bitcoin](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin). Now, if we want to use Git on the command line, we're going to want to download and install it on our computer. You can also get [GitHub Desktop](https://help.github.com/desktop/guides/getting-started-with-github-desktop/).  
